.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2014 Garrett D'Amore <garrett@damore.org>
.\"
.Dd Aug 31, 2014
.Dt PUNAME 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm puname
.Nd set or clear alternate uname for process
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl S | U
.Op Fl v
.Fl p Ar pid
.Nm
.Op Fl S | U
.Op Fl v
.Ar command
.Op arg Ns \&...
.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.
The
.Nm
command is used to query, set or clear the process flag that drives
the use of an alternate set of values used to report the system identity
in response to the
.Xr uname 2
and
.Xr sysinfo 2
system calls.
.Lp
The use of an alternate uname affects the
.Vt sysname ,
.Vt release ,
and
.Vt version
fields of the
.Vt utsname
structure.  See
.Xr utsname 3HEAD
and
.Xr uname 2 .
It also affects the
.Dv SI_SYSNAME ,
.Dv SI_RELEASE ,
and
.Dv SI_VERSION
commands used with
.Xr sysinfo 2 .
.
.Sh OPTIONS
.
The following options are supported:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl S
Sets the use of the alternate system identity for the process.  The
system will report alternate identity information to the process, and
any children subsequently created.
.It Fl U
Clears the use of the alternate system identity for the process.  The
system will report the primary identity information to the process, and
any children subsequently created.
.It Fl v
Report the setting of the flag for the process to the standard error
stream.
.El
.
.Sh OPERANDS
.
The following operands are supported:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Ar pid
The process id of an existing process to modify.
.It Ar command Op arg Ns ...
A command to execute, under the specified setting.
.El
.
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.
.Ex -std
.
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.
.Sy Uncommitted .
.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr proc 1 ,
.Xr sysinfo 2 ,
.Xr uname 2 ,
.Xr utsname 3HEAD ,
.Xr proc 4
