.\" Copyright 2014 Garrett D'Amore <garrett@damore.org>
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.Dd Aug 20, 2014
.Dt UCONTEXT.H 3HEAD
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm ucontext.h, ucontext
.Nd user context
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In ucontext.h
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.In ucontext.h
header defines the
.Ft ucontext_t
type as a structure that includes at least the following members:
.Bl -column -offset indent "ucontext_t" "uc_mcontext"
.It Ft ucontext_t	Fa uc_link ;
.It Ft sigset_t	Fa uc_sigmask ;
.It Ft stack_t	Fa uc_stack ;
.It Ft mcontext_t	Fa uc_mcontext ;
.El
.Lp
The
.Fa uc_link
member is a pointer to the context that to be resumed when
this context returns. If
.Fa uc_link
is equal to 0, this context is the main
context and the process exits when this context returns.
.Lp
The
.Fa uc_sigmask
member defines the set of signals that are blocked when
this context is active. See
.Xr sigprocmask 2 .
.Lp
The
.Fa uc_stack
member defines the stack used by this context. See
.Xr sigaltstack 2 .
.Lp
The
.Fa uc_mcontext
member contains the saved set of machine registers and
any implementation-specific context data. Portable applications should not
modify or access
.Fa uc_mcontext .
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Obsolete Standard .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr getcontext 2 ,
.Xr sigaction 2 ,
.Xr sigaltstack 2 ,
.Xr sigprocmask 2 ,
.Xr makecontext 3C ,
.Xr standards 5
.Sh STANDARDS
The
.In ucontext.h
header is available in the following compilation environments.  See
.Xr standards 5 .
.Lp
.Bl -bullet -compact
.It
.St -xpg4.2
.It
.St -susv2
.It
.St -susv3
.El
.Lp
It was obsoleted in
.St -susv3
and removed from
.St -p1003.1-2008 .
