.\" Copyright 2014 Garrett D'Amore <garrett@damore.org>
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T.  Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.  Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"  This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.Dd Aug 30, 2014
.Dt READLINK 2
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm readlink ,
.Nm readlinkat
.Nd read the contents of a symbolic link
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In unistd.h
.
.Ft ssize_t
.Fo readlink
.Fa "const char *restrict path"
.Fa "char *restrict buf"
.Fa "size_t bufsiz"
.Fc
.
.Ft ssize_t
.Fo readlinkat
.Fa "int fd"
.Fa "const char *restrict path"
.Fa "char *restrict buf"
.Fa "size_t bufsiz"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn readlink
function places the contents of the symbolic link referred
to by
.Fa path
in the buffer
.Fa buf
which has size
.Fa bufsiz .
If the number of bytes in the symbolic link is less than
.Fa bufsiz ,
the contents of the remainder of
.Fa buf
are left unchanged. If the
.Fa buf
argument is not
large enough to contain the link content, the first
.Fa bufsize
bytes are placed in
.Fa buf .
.
.Lp
The
.Fn readlinkat
function performs the same action as
.Fn readlink ,
except that if
.Fa path
names a relative path name, then it is considered relative to the
.Fa fd
argument instead of the current working directory.  The
.Fa fd
argument may be either an open directory file descriptor
.Pq such as from Xr dirfd 3C ,
or the special value
.Dv AT_FDCWD .
If it is the latter, then the current working directory is used as the
base for relative paths, and the
.Fn readlinkat
function behaves identically to
.Fn readlink .
.
.Lp
If the
.Fa fd
argument was opened without
.Dv O_SEARCH ,
then the directory is checked for searchability.
.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
.
Upon successful completion,
.Fn readlink
and
.Fn readlinkat
return the count of bytes placed
in the buffer.  Otherwise, they return \(mi1, leave the buffer
unchanged, and set
.Va errno
to indicate the error.
.
.Sh ERRORS
.
The
.Fn readlink
and
.Fn readlinkat
functions will fail if:
.
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EACCES
Search permission is denied for a component of the path prefix of
.Fa path .
.
.It Bq Er EFAULT
.Fa path
or
.Fa buf
points to an illegal address.
.
.It Bq Er EINVAL
The
.Fa path
argument names a file that is not a symbolic link.
.
.It Bq Er EIO
An I/O error occurred while reading from the file system.
.
.It Bq Er ENOENT
A component of
.Fa path
does not name an existing file or
.Fa path
is an empty string.
.
.It Bq Er ELOOP
A loop exists in symbolic links encountered during resolution of the
.Fa path
argument.
.
.It Bq Er ENAMETOOLONG
The length of
.Fa path
exceeds
.Brq Dv PATH_MAX ,
or a pathname component is longer than
.Brq Dv NAME_MAX
while
.Dv _POSIX_NO_TRUNC
is in effect.
.
.It Bq Er ENOTDIR
A component of the path prefix is not a directory.
.
.It Bq Er ENOSYS
The file system does not support symbolic links.
.El
.Lp
The
.Fn readlinkat
function will fail if:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.
.It Bq Er EBADF
The
.Fa path
is not absolute, and
.Fa fd
is neither an open file descriptor, nor the special value
.Dv AT_FDCWD .
.
.It Bq Er ENOTDIR
The
.Fa path
is not absolute, and the file descriptor
.Fa fd
does not reference a directory.
.
.It Bq Er EACCES
The
.Fa path
is not absolute, and
.Fa fd
was opened without
.Dv O_SEARCH
and the directory represented by
.Fa fd
is not searchable.
.El
.Lp
The
.Fn readlink
function may fail if:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.
.It Bq Er EACCES
Read permission is denied for the directory.
.
.It Bq Er ELOOP
More than
.Brq Dv SYMLOOP_MAX
symbolic links were encountered in resolving
.Fa path .
.
.It Bq Er ENAMETOOLONG
.
As a result of encountering a symbolic link in resolution of the path argument,
the length of the substituted pathname string exceeded
.Brq Dv PATH_MAX .
.El
.Sh USAGE
Portable applications should not assume that the returned contents of the
symbolic link are null-terminated.
.
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.
.Sy Standard .
.
.Sh MT-LEVEL
.Sy Async-Signal-Safe .
.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.
.Xr stat 2 ,
.Xr symlink 2 ,
.Xr dirfd 3C ,
.Xr standards5
.
.Sh STANDARDS
.
These functions are available in the following compilation environments. See
.Xr standards 5 .
.
.Ss Fn readlink
.Bl -bullet -compact
.It
.St -xpg4.2
.It
.St -susv2
.It
.St -susv3
.It
.St -p1003.1-2008
.El
.Ss Fn readlinkat
.Bl -bullet -compact
.It
.St -p1003.1-2008
.El
