.\" Copyright 2014 Garrett D'Amore <garrett@damore.org>
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited All Rights Reserved  Portions Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"  This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.Dd "Aug 19, 2014"
.Dt BSD_SIGNAL 3C
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm bsd_signal
.Nd simplified signal facilities
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In signal.h
.Ft void
.Fn \*(lp*bsd_signal "int sig" "void \*(lp*func\*(rp\*(lpint\*(rp\*(rp\*(rp\*(lpint"
.\" \fBvoid\fR (\fB*bsd_signal(int\fR \fIsig\fR, \fBvoid\fR (*\fIfunc\fR)(\fBint\fR)))(\fBint\fR);
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn bsd_signal
function provides a partially compatible interface for
programs written to historical system interfaces (see
.Sx USAGE
below).
.Lp
The function call
.Fn bsd_signal sig func
has an effect as if implemented as:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
void (*bsd_signal(int sig, void (*func)\|(int)))\|(int)
{
     struct sigaction act, oact;

     act.sa_handler = func;
     act.sa_flags = SA_RESTART;
     sigemptyset(&act.sa_mask);
     sigaddset(&act.sa_mask, sig);
     if (sigaction(sig, &act, &oact) == \(mi1)
          return(SIG_ERR);
     return(oact.sa_handler);
}
.Ed
.Lp
The handler function should be declared:
.Lp
.Dl Ft void Fn handler "int sig" ;
.Lp
where
.Fa sig
is the signal number.  The behavior is undefined if
.Fa func
is a function that takes more than one argument, or an argument of a different
type.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion,
.Fn bsd_signal
returns the previous action for
.Fa sig .
Otherwise,
.Dv SIG_ERR
is returned and
.Va errno
is set to indicate the error.
.Sh ERRORS
Refer to
.Xr sigaction 2 .
.Sh USAGE
This function is a direct replacement for the
.Bx
.Fn signal
function for simple applications that are installing a single-argument signal
handler function.  If a
.Bx
signal handler function is being installed
that expects more than one argument, the application has to be modified to use
.Xr sigaction 2 .
.Lp
Portable applications should use
.Xr sigaction 2
instead of this function.
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Obsolete Standard .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr sigaction 2 ,
.Xr sigaddset 3C ,
.Xr sigemptyset 3C ,
.Xr standards 5
.Sh STANDARDS
The
.Fn bsd_signal
function is available in the following compilation environments.  See
.Xr standards .
.Lp
.Bl -bullet -compact
.It
.St -xpg4.2 .
.It
.St -susv2
.It
.St -susv3
.El
.Lp
It is marked obsolete in
.St -susv3 ,
and was removed from
.St -p1003.1-2008 .
