.\" Copyright 2014 Garett D'Amore <garrett@damore.org>
.\" Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.Dd Aug 19, 2014
.Dt BSTRING 3C
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm bstring, bcopy, bcmp, bzero
.Nd memory operations
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In strings.h
.Ft void
.Fn bcopy "const void *s1" "void *s2" "size_t n"
.Ft int
.Fn bcmp "const void *s1" "const void *s2" "size_t n"
.Ft void
.Fn bzero "void *s" "size_t n"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn bcopy ,
.Fn bcmp ,
and
.Fn bzero
functions operate as
efficiently as possible on memory areas (arrays of bytes bounded by a count,
not terminated by a null character).  They do not check for the overflow  of
any receiving memory area.  These functions are similar to the
.Xr memcpy 3C ,
.Xr memcmp 3C ,
and
.Xr memset 3C
functions.
.Lp
The
.Fn bcopy
function copies
.Fa n
bytes from memory area
.Fa s1
to
.Fa s2 .
Copying between objects that overlap will take place correctly.
.Lp
The
.Fn bcmp
function compares the first
.Fa n
bytes of its arguments, returning 0 if they are identical and 1 otherwise. The
.Fn bcmp
function always returns 0 when
.Fa n
is 0.
.Lp
The
.Fn bzero
function sets the first
.Fa n
bytes in memory area
.Fn s
to 0.
.Sh USAGE
The
.Fn bcopy
function takes parameters backwards from
.Fn memcpy .
The
.Fn memcpy ,
.Fn memcmp ,
and
.Fn memset
functions are specified by
.St -isoC
and should be used in lieu of these functions in portable applications.
See
.Xr memory 3C .
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Obsolete Standard .
.Sh MT-LEVEL
.Sy MT-Safe .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr memory 3C ,
.Xr standards 5
.Sh STANDARDS
These functions are available in the following compilation environments.  See
.Xr standards 5 .
.Lp
.Bl -bullet -compact
.It
.St -xpg4.2
.It
.St -susv2
.It
.St -susv3
.El
.Lp
These interfaces were obsoleted in
.St -susv3
and removed from
.St -p1003.1-2008 .
