.\" Copyright 2014 Garrett D'Amore <garrett@damore.org>
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T.  Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.  Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited,  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"  This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.Dd Aug 19, 2014
.Dt ECVT 3C
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm ecvt, fcvt, gcvt
.Nd convert floating-point number to string
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In stdlib.h
.Ft "char *"
.Fn ecvt "double value" "int ndigit" "int *restrict decpt" "int *restrict sign"
.Ft "char *"
.Fn fcvt "double value" "int ndigit" "int *restrict decpt" "int *restrict sign"
.Ft "char *"
.Fn gcvt "double value" "int ndigit" "char *buf"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn ecvt ,
.Fn fcvt ,
and
.Fn gcvt
functions convert floating-point numbers to null-terminated strings.
.Ss Fn ecvt
The
.Fn ecvt
function converts
.Fa value
to a null-terminated string of
.Fa ndigit
digits (where
.Fa ndigit
is reduced to an unspecified limit determined by the precision of a
.Ft double
and returns a pointer to the
string.  The high-order digit is non-zero, unless the value is 0.  The
low-order digit is rounded.  The position of the radix character relative to
the beginning of the string is stored in the integer pointed to by
.Fa decpt
(negative means to the left of the returned digits). The radix character is not
included in the returned string. If the sign of the result is negative, the
integer pointed to by
.Fa sign
is non-zero, otherwise it is 0.
.Lp
If the converted value is out of range or is not representable, the contents of
the returned string are unspecified.
.Ss Fn fcvt
The
.Fn fcvt
function is identical to
.Fn ecvt
except that
.Fa ndigit
specifies the number of digits desired after the radix point.  The total number
of digits in the result string is restricted to an unspecified limit as
determined by the precision of a
.Ft double .
.Ss Fn gcvt
The
.Fn gcvt
function converts
.Fa value
to a null-terminated string
(similar to that of the
.Em %g
format of
.Xr printf 3C
in the array pointed to by
.Fa buf
and returns
.Fa buf .
It produces
.Fa ndigit
significant digits (limited to an unspecified value determined by the precision
of a
.Ft double )
in
.Em %f
if possible, or
.Em %e
(scientific notation)
otherwise.  A minus sign is included in the returned string if
.Fa value
is less than 0.  A radix character is included in the returned string if
.Fa value
is not a whole number.  Trailing zeros are suppressed where
.Fa value
is not a whole number.  The radix character is determined by the
.Dv LC_NUMERIC
category of the current locale.  In the default, POSIX, locale, the period
.Pq Em \&.
is used for the radix character.
default locale, POSIX, is used.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
The
.Fn ecvt
and
.Fn fcvt
functions return a pointer to a null-terminated string of digits.
.Lp
The
.Fn gcvt
function returns
.Fa buf .
.Sh ERRORS
No errors are defined.
.Sh USAGE
The return values from
.Fn ecvt
and
.Fn fcvt
might point to
thread-specific data that can be overwritten by subsequent calls to these
functions by the same thread.
.Lp
Portable applications should use
.Xr sprintf 3C ,
which is mandated by
.St -isoC .
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Obsolete Standard .
.Sh MT-LEVEL
.Sy Safe .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr printf 3C ,
.Xr setlocale 3C ,
.Xr sprintf 3C ,
.Xr standards 5
.Sh STANDARDS
These functions are available in the following compilation environments.
See
.Xr standards 5 .
.Lp
.Bl -bullet -compact
.It
.St -xpg4.2
.It
.St -susv2
.It
.St -susv3
.El
.Lp
They were obsoleted in
.St -susv3
and removed from
.St -p1003.1-2008 .
