.\" Copyright 2014 Garrett D'Amore <garrett@damore.org>
.\" Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved  Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"  This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.Dd Aug 19, 2014
.Dt FTIME 3C
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm ftime
.Nd get date and time
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/timeb.h
.Ft int
.Fn ftime "struct timeb *tp"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn ftime
function sets the
.Fa time
and
.Fa millitm
members of the
.Ft timeb
structure pointed to by
.Fa tp .
The structure is defined in
.In sys/timeb.h
and contains the following members:
.Bl -column "unsigned short" "timezone" -offset indent
.It Ft time_t Ta Fa time ;
.It Ft unsigned short Ta Fa millitim ;
.It Ft short Ta Fa timezone ;
.It Ft short Ta Fa dstflag ;
.El
.Lp
The
.Fa time
and
.Fa millitm
members contain the seconds and milliseconds
portions, respectively, of the current time in seconds since 00:00:00 UTC
(Coordinated Universal Time), January 1, 1970.
.Lp
The
.Fa timezone
member contains the local time zone. The
.Fa dstflag
member contains a flag that, if non-zero, indicates that Daylight Saving Time
applies locally during the appropriate part of the year.
.Lp
The contents of the
.Fa timezone
and
.Fa dstflag
members of
.Fa tp
after a call to
.Fn ftime
are unspecified.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
.Rv -std
.Sh ERRORS
No errors are defined.
.Sh USAGE
Portable applications should use either
.Xr time 2 ,
or, if sub-second precision is required,
.Xr clock_gettime 3C .
.Lp
The millisecond value usually has a granularity greater than one due to the
resolution of the system clock.  Depending on any granularity (particularly a
granularity of one) renders code non-portable.
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Obsolete Standard .
.Sh MT-LEVEL
.Sy Safe .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr date 1 ,
.Xr time 2 ,
.Xr clock_gettime 3C ,
.Xr ctime 3C ,
.Xr gettimeofday 3C ,
.Xr timezone 4 ,
.Xr standards 5
.Sh STANDARDS
The
.Fn ftime
function is available in the following compilation environments.  See
.Xr standards 5 .
.Lp
.Bl -bullet -compact
.It
.St -xpg4.2
.It
.St -susv2
.It
.St -susv3
.El
.Lp
It was obsoleted in
.St -susv3
and removed from
.St -p1003.1-2008 .
