.\" Copyright 2014 Garrett D'Amore <garrett@damore.org>
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc. and The Open Group. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 1991, 1992, 1994, The X/Open Company Ltd.
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"  This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.Dd Aug 20, 2014
.Dt PTHREAD_ATTR_GETSTACKADDR 3C
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm pthread_attr_getstackaddr ,
.Nm pthread_attr_setstackaddr
.Nd get or set stackaddr attribute
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In pthread.h
.Ft int
.Fo pthread_attr_getstackaddr
.Fa "const pthread_attr_t *restrict attr"
.Fa "void **restrict stackaddr"
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fn pthread_attr_setstackaddr "pthread_attr_t *attr" "void **stackaddr"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The functions
.Fn pthread_attr_setstackaddr
and
.Fn pthread_attr_getstackaddr ,
respectively, set and get the thread creation
.Fa stackaddr
attribute in the
.Fa attr
object. The
.Fa stackaddr
default is
.Dv NULL .
See
.Xr pthread_create 3C .
.Lp
The
.Fa stackaddr
attribute specifies the location of storage to be used for
the created thread's stack. The size of the storage is at least
.Dv PTHREAD_STACK_MIN .
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion,
.Fn pthread_attr_setstackaddr
and
pthread_attr_getstackaddr
return 0. Otherwise, an
error number is returned to indicate the error.
.Lp
If successful, the
.Fn pthread_attr_getstackaddr
function stores the
.Sy stackaddr
attribute value in
.Fa stackaddr .
.Sh ERRORS
The
.Fn pthread_attr_setstackaddr
function may fail if:
.Bl -diag
.It EINVAL
.Fa attr is invalid.
.El
.Lp
The
.Fn pthread_attr_getstackaddr
function may fail if:
.Bl -diag
.It EINVAL
.Fa attr
or
.Fa stackaddr
is invalid.
.El
.Sh USAGE
Due to ambiguities in the standard for these functions, their use is
discouraged.  Instead, the
.Xr pthread_attr_setstack 3C
and
.Xr pthread_attr_getstack 3C
functions, which were introduced in
.St -p1003.1-2001 ,
should be used instead.
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Obsolete Standard .
.Sh MT-LEVEL
.Sy MT-Safe .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr pthread_attr_getstack 3C ,
.Xr pthread_attr_init 3C ,
.Xr pthread_attr_setdetachstate 3C ,
.Xr pthread_attr_setstack 3C ,
.Xr pthread_attr_setstacksize 3C ,
.Xr pthread_create 3C ,
.Xr standards 5
.Sh STANDARDS
These functions are available in the following compilation environments. See
.Xr standards 5 .
.Lp
.Bl -bullet -compact
.It
.St -p1003.1c-95
.It
.St -p1003.1-2001
.It
.St -p1003.1-2008
.It
.St -xpg4.2
.It
.St -susv2
.It
.St -susv3
.El
.Lp
The
.Fn pthread_attr_setstackaddr
and
.Fn pthread_attr_getstackaddr
functions were obsoleted in
.St -p1003.1-2001
and
.St -susv3 ,
and removed from
.St -p1003.1-2008 .
