.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2014 Garrett D'Amore <garrett@damore.org>
.\"
.Dd "Oct 2, 2014"
.Dt PTHREAD_MUTEX_CONSISTENT 3C
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm pthread_mutex_consistent
.Nd mark state protected by robust mutex consistent
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In pthread.h
.
.Ft int
.Fo pthread_mutex_consistent
.Fa "pthread_mutex_t *mutex"
.Fc
.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn pthread_mutex_consistent
function notifies the system that the state protected by
.Fa mutex
is consistent, and that the caller is ready to recover the
mutex.
.
.Lp
This operation is performed after an application holding a mutex with the
.Dv PTHREAD_MUTEX_ROBUST
attribute exits or is terminated.  When the application restarts, it can
inform the system that it is ready to recover the mutex.
.Lp
If this operation is not performed on a
.Dv PTHREAD_MUTEX_ROBUST ,
and an application holding the mutex exits or is terminated while holding
the mutex, then future attempts to acquire or release the mutex will
fail with the error value
.Bq Er ENOTRECOVERABLE .
.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
On success, the
.Fn pthread_mutex_unlock
returns 0.  Otherwise an error number is returned.
.Sh ERRORS
The
.Fn pthread_mutex_unlock
function will fail if:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EINVAL
The
.Fa mutex
is invalid or not in an inconsistent state.
.El
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Standard .
.Sh MT-LEVEL
.Sy MT-Safe .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr ptrhead_mutex_lock 3C ,
.Xr pthread_mutexattr_getrobust 3C ,
.Xr standards 5
.Sh STANDARDS
The
.Fn pthread_mutex_consistent
function was introduced in
.St -p1003.1-2008 .
