.\" Copyright 2014 Garrett D'Amore <garrett@damore.org>
.\" Copyright (c) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"  This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.Dd Sep 25, 2014
.Dt TTYNAME 3C
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm ttyname ,
.Nm ttyname_r
.Nd find pathname of a terminal
.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.
.In unistd.h
.
.Ft "char *"
.Fo ttyname
.Fa "int fildes"
.Fc
.
.Ft "int"
.Fo ttyname_r
.Fa "int filedes"
.Fa "char *name"
.Fa "size_t namesize"
.Fc
.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.
The
.Fn ttyname
function returns a pointer to a string containing the
null-terminated path name of the terminal device associated with file
descriptor
.Fa fildes .
The return value points to thread-specific data whose
content is overwritten by each call from the same thread.
.Lp
The
.Fn ttyname_r
function has the same functionality as
.Fn ttyname
except that the caller must supply a buffer
.Fa name
with length
.Fa namesize
to store the result; this buffer must be at least
.Dv _POSIX_PATH_MAX
in size
.Pq defined in In limits.h
.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
.
Upon successful completion,
.Fn ttyname
returns a pointer to a string. Otherwise, a null pointer is returned and
.Va errno
is set to indicate the error.
The
.Fn ttyname_r
returns 0 if successful or the error number upon failure.
.
.Sh ERRORS
.
The
.Fn ttyname No and Fn ttyname_r
functions may fail if:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.
.It Bq Er EBADF
The
.Fa fildes
argument is not a valid file descriptor.
.
.It Bq Er ENOTTY
The
.Fa fildes
argument does not refer to a terminal device.
.El
.
.Lp
The
.Fn ttyname_r
function may fail if:
.
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er ERANGE
The value of
.Fa namesize
is smaller than the length of the string to be
returned including the terminating null character.
.El
.
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.
.Sy Standard .
.
.Sh MT-LEVEL
.
The
.Fn ttyname
function is
.Sy Safe ,
but portable applications must not depend on this.
.
.Lp
The
.Fn ttyname_r
function is
.Sy MT-Safe .
.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.
.Xr Intro 3 ,
.Xr gettext 3C ,
.Xr setlocale 3C ,
.Xr standards 5
.
.Sh NOTES
.
Solaris provided definitions of the
.Fn ttyname_r
interface as specified in POSIX.1c Draft 6.
The final POSIX.1c standard changed the interface as described above.
Applications compiled using the Draft 6 interface in Solaris will continue
to function, but new applications must use the standard-conforming interface.
