.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2014 Garrett D'Amore <garrett@damore.org>
.\"
.Dd Aug 17, 2014
.Dt WCSLEN 3C
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm wcslen ,
.Nm wcsnlen
.Nd get length of wide-character string
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In wchar.h
.
.Ft wchar_t
.Fo wcslen
.Fa "const wchar_t *string"
.Fc
.
.Ft wchar_t
.Fo wcsnlen
.Fa "const wchar_t *string"
.Fa "size_t maxlen"
.Fc
.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn wcslen
and
.Fn wcsnlen
functions count the number of wide-characters that are present
.Fa string .
They stop counting when they encounter a null wide-character.
The terminating null wide-character is not included in the NULL.
.Lp
Additionally,
.Fn wcsnlen
stops counting after it has counted
.Fa maxlen
wide-characters.
.Lp
The
.Fn wcslen
and
.Fn wcsnlen
functions are the wide-character equivalents of
.Xr strlen 3C
and
.Xr strnlen 3C ,
respectively.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
The
.Fn wcslen
function returns the length of
.Fa string .
The
.Fn wcsnlen
function returns the smaller of the length of
.Fa string
and
.Fa maxlen .
.Sh ERRORS
None.
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Standard .
.Sh MT-LEVEL
.Sy MT-Safe .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr free 3C ,
.Xr strlen 3C ,
.Xr strnlen 3C ,
.Xr wchar.h 3HEAD ,
.Xr locale 5 ,
.Xr standards 5
.Sh STANDARDS
.Ss Fn wcslen
The
.Fn wcslen
function is available in the following compilation environments.  See
.Xr standards 5 .
.Lp
.Bl -bullet -compact 
.It
.St -isoC-amd1
.It
.St -isoC-99
.It
.St -isoC-2011
.It
.St -xpg4
.It
.St -xpg4.2
.It
.St -susv2
.It
.St -susv3
.It
.St -p1003.1-2008
.El
.Ss Fn wcsnlen
The
.Fn wcsnlen
function is available in the following compilation environment.  See
.Xr standards 5 .
.Lp
.Bl -bullet -compact
.It
.St -p1003.1-2008
.El
