.\" Copyright 2014 Garrett D'Amore <garrett@damore.org>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997, The Open Group. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"  This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.Dd Aug 21, 2014
.Dt ENDHOSTENT 3XNET
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm endhostent ,
.Nm gethostbyaddr ,
.Nm gethostbyname ,
.Nm gethostent ,
.Nm sethostent
.Nd network host database functions
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Ic cc
.Op Ar flag Ns No ...
.Ar file Ns No ...
.Fl xnet
.Op Ar library Ns No ...
.Lp
.In netdb.h
.Lp
.Vt "extern int"
.Va h_errno ;
.
.Lp
.Ft void
.Fn endhostent void
.
.Ft "struct hostent *"
.Fn gethostbyaddr "const void *addr" "socklen_t len" "int type"
.
.Ft "struct hostent *"
.Fn gethostbyname "const char *name"
.
.Ft "struct hostent *"
.Fn gethostent "void"
.
.Ft void
.Fn sethostent "int stayopen"
.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.
The
.Fn gethostent ,
.Fn gethostbyaddr ,
and
.Fn gethostbyname
functions each return a pointer to a
.Vt hostent
structure, the members of
which contain the fields of an entry in the network host database.
.Lp
The
.Fn gethostent
function reads the next entry of the database, opening a
connection to the database if necessary.
.Lp
The
.Fn gethostbyaddr
function searches the database and finds an entry
which matches the address family specified by the
.Fa type
argument and which
matches the address pointed to by the
.Fa addr
argument, opening a connection to the database if necessary. The
.Fa addr
argument is a pointer
to the binary-format (that is, not null-terminated) address in network byte
order, whose length is specified by the
.Fa len
argument.  The datatype of
the address depends on the address family.  For an address of type
.Dv AF_INET
AF_INET , this is an
.Vt in_addr
structure, defined in
.In netinet/in.h .
This implementation only supports the
.Dv AF_INET
address family.
.Lp
The
.Fn gethostbyname
function searches the database and finds an entry
which matches the host name specified by the
.Fa name
argument, opening a connection to the database if necessary. If
.Fa name
is an alias for a valid
host name, the function returns information about the host name  to which the
alias refers, and
.Fa name
is included in the list of aliases returned.
.Lp
The
.Fn sethostent
function opens a connection to the network host
database, and sets the position of the next entry to the first entry.  If the
.Fa stayopen
argument is non-zero, the connection to the host database will
not be closed after each call to
.Fn gethostent
(either directly, or
indirectly through one of the other
.Fn gethost*
functions).
.Lp
The
.Fn endhostent
function closes the connection to the database.
.
.Sh USAGE
.
The
.Fn gethostent ,
.Fn gethostbyaddr ,
and
.Fn gethostbyname
functions may return pointers to static data, which may be overwritten by
subsequent calls to any of these functions.
.Lp
This implementation only supports the Internet
.Pq Dv AF_INET
address family.
.Lp
These functions are deprecated in favor of the
.Xr getaddrinfo 3XNET
and
.Xr getnameinfo 3XNET
functions, which support additional address families, including IPv6,
and are safe for use in multi-threaded applications.
.Lp
Use of
.Fn gethostent
to enumerate the hosts database is discouraged.  The implementation may use a
backing database that does not support enumeration, such as DNS.
.
The implementation is the same as used by the
.Bx
compatible interfaces described in
.Xr gethostbyname 3NSL ,
with the various caveats described therein.
.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
On successful completion,
.Fn gethostbyaddr ,
.Fn gethostbyname
and
.Fn gethostent
return a pointer to a
.Vt hostent
structure if the
requested entry was found, and a null pointer if the end of the database was
reached or the requested entry was not found.  Otherwise, a null pointer is
returned.
.Lp
On unsuccessful completion,
.Fn gethostbyaddr
and
.Fn gethostbyname
functions set
.Va h_errno
to indicate the error.
.
.Sh ERRORS
No errors are defined for
.Fn endhostent ,
.Fn gethostent
and
.Fn sethostent .
.Lp
The
.Fn gethostbyaddr
and
.Fn gethostbyname
functions will fail in the
following cases, setting
.Va h_errno
to the value shown in the list below.
Any changes to
.Va errno
are unspecified.
.
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Dv HOST_NOT_FOUND
No such host is known.
.It Dv NO_DATA
The server recognised the request and the name but no address is available.
Another type of request to the name server for the domain might return an
answer.
.It Dv NO_RECOVERY
An unexpected server failure occurred which can not be recovered.
.It Dv TRY_AGAIN
A temporary and possibly transient error occurred, such as a failure of a
server to respond.
.El
.
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.
The
.Fn gethostbyaddr
and
.Fn gethostbyname
functions and the
.Va h_errno
variable are
.Sy Obsolete Standard .
.Lp
The
.Fn gethostent ,
.Fn sethostehost ,
and
.Fn endhostent
functions are
.Sy Standard .
.
.Sh MT-LEVEL
.
.Sy Unsafe .
.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr gethostbyname 3NSL ,
.Xr endservent 3XNET ,
.Xr getaddrinfo 3XNET ,
.Xr getnameinfo 3XNET ,
.Xr htonl 3XNET ,
.Xr inet_addr 3XNET ,
.Xr standards 5
.
.Sh STANDARDS
.
The
.Fn endhostent ,
.Fn gethostent ,
and
.Fn sethostent
functions are available in the following compilation environnments.  See
.Xr standards 5 .
.Lp
.Bl -bullet -compact
.It
.St -xpg4.2
.It
.St -susv2
.It
.St -susv3
.It
.St -p1003.1-2001
.It
.St -p1003.1-2008
.El
.Lp
The
.Fn gethostbyaddr
and
.Fn gethostbyname
functions, and the
.Va h_errno
variable are available in the following compilation environments.  See
standards 5 .
.Lp
.Bl -bullet -compact
.It
.St -xpg4.2
.It
.St -susv2
.It
.St -susv3
.It
.St -p1003.1-2001
.El
.Lp
Note that
.Fn gethostbyaddr ,
.Fn gethostbyname ,
and
.Va h_errno
were obsoleted in
.St -susv3
and removed from
.St -p1003.1-2008 .
